
# INVAL

INVAL is the Independent PDDL plan Validator.

The Planning Domain Definition Language (PDDL) is a modelling
language for expressing AI planning problems, and used as the
input language of a large number of general-purpose AI planning
systems.
The role of a plan validator is to check if a plan (generated by
an AI planner or manually written) is valid, according to the
domain and problem specification. A validator is a very useful
tool for debugging a domain/problem specification, a planner
implementation, and indeed the specification of PDDL itself.

The existing PDDL plan validator, [VAL](https://github.com/KCL-Planning/VAL),
created by Derek Long et al., is a great tool, but, like all software,
it does have bugs. INVAL is meant to complement VAL, not to replace it.
The aim of INVAL is to have a simple (rather than capable and efficient)
implementation of the PDDL semantics as they are defined in the literature.
When both validators agree, you can have greater confidence that they are
right; when they disagree, this points to either a flaw in one of them or
an ambiguity in the language specification.

Compared to VAL, INVAL has some limitations. Most importantly,
it does not handle temporal plans. It should, however, handle numeric
and object-valued fluents, and derived predicates. And it's not
efficient.

## Compilation and usage

INVAL is written in LISP. For instructions on how to run it, see
comments at the beginning of the main file ("inval.lsp").

## Other PDDL tools

This package also includes a set of other PDDL tools:

* `rsk` is a domain/problem compiler that removes object fluents (PDDL
  version 3.1). It can either compile them away completely (producing
  standard ADL-like PDDL) or compile away only nested fluents (producing
  something analogous to SAS+).

* `simplify` is a domain/problem simplifier. It outputs "simple ADL",
  which may still have conditional effects but no quantifiers or
  disjunction.

* `nyat` converts PDDL into FastDownward's internal SAS+ format. In other
  words, it is a drop-in replacement for the FastDownward translator.
  Compared to the FD translator, it is _much less efficient_, and it does
  not automatically generate finite-domain variables from the propositional
  PDDL representation. Instead (and unlike the FD translator), it preserves
  any object fluents (i.e., SAS+ variables) in the PDDL input. This means
  that it gives you full control over the generated SAS+ representation.

* `vapo` is a validator (of sorts) for fully-observable probabilistic
  planning policies. It doesn't actually validate that the policy
  reaches the goal, but it generates a graph (in dot format) of the
  state space reachable under a policy, with nodes (states) labelled
  by the policy action.
